Admin remove channel #1233500 (#3631)
uyuni-project/uyuni-docs: modules/administration/pages/removing-channels.adoc

= Removing Channel

> This chapter describes how to manually remove {suse} provided channels from {productname} and to clean up end-of-life products, to reclaim space or for other purposes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This chapter describes how to manually remove {suse} provided channels from {productname} and clean up end-of-life products, to reclaim space or for other purposes.
```

.Procedure: Identifying Channel Labels Using the Command Line
[role=procedure]

. You can get a list of channels by running the following command on the {productname} container host:
+
----
mgrctl exec -ti -- spacewalk-remove-channel -l
----

===  Verify Channel System Subscriptions

.Procedure: Verifying Channel System Subscriptions Using {webui}

. In the {productname} {webui}, navigate to menu:Software[Channel List > All].
. Locate [literal]``Systems`` column on the right.
. Check the [literal]``Systems`` column for the channel, or any child channels, that you want to remove.

.Procedure: Verifying Channel System Subscriptions Using the Command Line

. Run the following command on the {productname} container host:
+
----
mgrctl exec -ti -- 'spacecmd -- softwarechannel_listsystems <Channel Label>'
----

[[removing-channel]]
== Remove Channel

> A channel, with its metadata, can be removed with command line tools only.
> The [command]``spacewalk-remove-channel`` command automatically removes the software packages, too.
> It also removes the metadata from the database and the files from the storage medium.

Reviewer 2: This sounds a bit duplicated.

```suggestion
A channel, with its metadata, can be removed with command line tools only.
The [command]``spacewalk-remove-channel`` command automatically removes the software packages, too when they are not referenced anymore by other channels.
This mean it remove the metadata from the database and the files from the storage medium.
```

Maybe something like this?

=== Remove a Child Channel

.Procedure: Removing a Child Channel Using the Command Line

. To remove an individual channel run the following command on the {productname} container host:
+
----
mgrctl exec -ti -- spacewalk-remove-channel -c channel-label
----
+
. To remove multiple channels at the same time, use [literal]``-c`` flag for each channel, followed by the [literal]``channel-label``.
  For example:
+
----
mgrctl exec -ti -- spacewalk-remove-channel -c channel-label1 -c channel-label2
----

=== Remove a Parent and All Its Child Channels

.Procedure: Removing a Parent and All Its Child Channels
. To remove a parent channel with all of the child channels run a command such as:
+
----

> mgrctl exec -ti -- spacewalk-remove-channel -a sles12-sp5-pool-x86_64

Reviewer 2: You used placeholders like "channel-label" on the command above, but here you use one "real" one.
Is this by a reason?

Author: probably previous writer used a rel one because it is a parent channel.  But I changed that one now.

//----

== Remove Packages from the Database and the Filesystem

To finally gain space remove the packages from the database and filesystem.

=== Remove Packages from the Database Using {webui}

.Procedure: Removing Packages from the Database Using {webui}
. After removing the channel, you need to delete the packages from the database using the {webui}.
. In the {productname} {webui}, navigate to menu:SUSEManager[Software > Manage > Packages].

> . Select [literal]``Package in no channel``, and delete the packages.

Reviewer 2: spacewalk-remove-channel automatically remove also the packages. This chapter is not needed.
It removes the metadata from DB as well as the files from disk.

This is just a general information in case of other actions remove a package from a channel and do not delete it from disk. But for spacewalk-remove-channel it is not needed.

Author: ok, changed accordingly.

===  Remove the Packages from the Filesystem

.Procedure: Removing the Packages from the Filesystem
. The following command checks for anything that still exists in the filesystem, but not in the {productname} database, and removes it.
  On the command line of the container host, run the following command:
+
----

> mgrctl exec -ti -- spacewalk-data-fsck -r -S -C -O

Reviewer 2: spacewalk-data-fsck is a debugging and troubleshooting tool. It helps after fatal crashes when inconsistencies are detected. You do not need it to remove packages from disk after using of spacewalk-remove-channel.

I would move this into the troubleshooting section.

Author: ok.  I created a separate issue for further tracking: https://github.com/uyuni-project/uyuni-docs/issues/3632
